###Exercises

>Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

#Making Coffee

```
Making coffee;
Washing dishes;
A choice of your own.

GATHER supplies: Chemex carafe, filter, electric kettle, ground coffee, cup, cream (optional), sugar (optional)

FILL electric kettle with 1 liter of water
START electric kettle

FOLD filter to fit in top of Chemex carafe
PUT filter into top of Chemex carafe
PUT 4 oz ground coffee into filter at top of Chemex carafe

WHILE electric kettle is still heating water,
  WAIT for water to boil
END WHILE


FOR water in electric kettle
  POUR boiling water over coffee in at top of Chemex carafe until water reaches rim
  LET water drain through filter
END FOR

REMOVE filter and ground coffee from top of Chemex carafe
THROW filter away

POUR 8oz of coffee into cup from Chemex carafe
IF you like cream and/or sugar
  ADD cream and/or sugar
END IF

CONSUME coffee

```

#Washing Dishes

```

COLLECT SUPPLIES: Dirty Dishes, Double-Basin Sink, Sink Plug, Brush, Dish Soap, Dish Drying Rack

TURN ON water in Sink

WHILE water is NOT warm
  RUN water into right basin of Sink
END WHILE

INSERT Sink Plug into Sink drain
WHILE Sink is NOT FULL
  RUN water into right basin of Sink
END WHILE

TURN OFF water in Sink

PUT teaspoon of Dish Soap on Brush
LATHER Dish Soap on Brush

WHILE Dish Drying Rack is NOT FULL
  FOR dish in Dirty Dishes
    SCRUB dish with Brush 
    RINSE dish in right basin
    TURN ON water in left basin
    RINSE dish under water
    TURN OFF water in left basin
    PLACE dish on Dish Drying Rack
    IF Brush is NOT lathered
      PUT teaspoon of Dish Soap on Brush
    END IF
  END FOR
  IF Dirty Dishes is NOT null
    FOR dish in Dirty Dishes
    STACK dish to left of Sink
    END FOR
  END IF
END WHILE

```

#Find a Show to Watch on Netflix

```

COLLECT SUPPLIES: Playstation Controller, Playstation, TV, TV Remote, Snack, Blanket, Couch

SIT on Couch
COVER lower body with Blanket

TURN ON TV with TV Remote
TURN ON Playstation with Playstation Controller
SELECT Video Option with Playstation Controller
SELECT Netflix Option with Playstation Controller

FOR movie on My List
  IF movie has NOT been watched AND looks not too sad OR looks not too scary AND I have NOT promised to watch movie with someone else
    START movie
  ELSE listen to favorite podcast
  END IF
END FOR
EAT Snack

```

>As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick 
the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, 
e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). 
Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make 
them stand out?

* Ford's Model T is an interesting early example of an algorithm. Ford was the first company to use an assembly line to
streamline the production of their product, which allowed the company to make more cars faster than anyone else and take over
the American auto industry for a time. There are many ways to build a car, but Ford's was the most efficient.
  
* Netflix was the first major streaming service, because they were able to optimize the compression of data so that users
could stream video directly over the Internet instead of having to download an entire file first. In the last two years, Netflix
has introduced the use of AI into their streaming codec to compete with other streaming services like Hulu and Amazon Prime.
The AI analyzes each frame of a video and tweaks the compression in order to optimize buffering speed, even on slow Internet.
Very cool.

* I use a meal-prep delivery box service called Dinnerly, which is similar to other meal box services like Plated, Blue Apron,
and Home Chef, but nearly $100 per month cheaper. Dinnerly offers the same quality food as its competitors, but cut out the fancy
recipe cards (theirs are online) and excessive packaging (many items are packaged together rather than in separate containers). Although
they don't advertise it, I suspect that they source their meat from "less ethical" sources than the competing companies claim as well, but
for a consumer on a budget, Dinnerly's optimized price tag of $38 per week for six meals set them enough apart for me to subscribe.

>Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm shouldn't contain repeating code, rather it should be broken down into unique steps that depend only upon the input or the result of a previous step. 
I would assume an algorithm shouldn't contain any unnecessary logic - each step should have a clearly defined purpose. The algorithm's steps should be precise, each step 
clearly stated, and finite. 